let's bring in Senate Minority Leader
Democrat Chuck Schumer of New York we've
got a lot to talk to you about senator
let's start with the numbers in New York
how do they relate to the numbers of
tests that are out there do you have
enough tests to test everybody in the
state of New York we do not have enough
tests and one other thing mica and one
of the things we're going to be pushing
in this new bill that we're doing it's
not just the testing and that's bad
enough we need a Marshall Plan for all
of the healthcare industry particularly
our hospitals there are not enough
ventilators and I don't know the
president finally we asked him to do
this several days ago and vocht the
defense production Act which would allow
him to command the factories to make
more but is someone implementing that we
don't have enough beds and getting the
Army Corps of Engineers to build some
temporary Hospital hospital buildings
with beds is very important as well and
we should probably use some of the
Veterans Administration beds that are
not being used right now they don't even
have enough swabs and then there are all
kinds of other problems in New York City
the health care workers use the subways
to get there but if they closed the
subways I'm not saying they've made a
decision that will be up to the governor
and the mayor how are you going to get
people to work and this happens in lots
of other places as well we need a
Marshall Plan on the whole healthcare
system and just as three weeks ago you
and I and many others were talking about
tests and now is upon us we will be
talking about the dire situation in the
hospitals in a few weeks if we don't act
now so this is all very very important
and I agree with Joe the president every
one can judge the job he's done you've
done a very good job talking about it we
got to go forward in a bipartisan way
here in the House and Senate and do what
needs to be done in bold quick action
and that's what we're trying to do here
Senator Schumer it's willie geist thanks
for coming in this morning know how busy
a time it is for you I want to ask you
about the people in your state the
workers in your state this is the front
page of the New York
this morning it says mass layoffs begin
thousands of New York City restaurant
workers fired
we know the National Restaurant
Association said yesterday they expect
five to seven million jobs to be lost in
that industry alone what is your message
this morning people are hearing a lot
about bailouts of the airlines and
things like that yes to the waiter to
the bartender okay person words -
cleaner two words workers first and
here's what we're going to be proposing
this morning I hope when leader
McConnell and I need to work out this
package that we we've massively expand
unemployment insurance right now
unemployment insurance is hard to get
takes a long time to get you get paid
only a fraction of the wages you were
paid and it's not available to large
numbers of workers what we Democrats in
the Senate are proposing and I know
House Speaker Pelosi is for this because
we're consulting on everything is that
we get unemployment insurance where you
get paid if you get laid off they'll
fall to your own of course all these
restaurant workers you get full salary
you get it quickly the application
process is very very simple and it goes
for a long period of time you know we
need to have the workers being paid
during this this huge crisis where if no
one's showing up at the restaurants and
so they're not working but we need them
to be paid and everyone to be paid this
unemployment provision is very important
I spoke to mr. minuchin last night I
told him we needed this probably more
importantly than anything else on the
economic front because it's targeted it
goes to the people who need it and he
seemed very open to it I was very glad
about fast so senator the the money that
is being talked about directly into
Americans pockets $1,000 $2,000 will get
people through a month but if the little
business you work for shuts down you're
done after a month so what about this
idea that's being talked about Steve
Rattner was talking about it this
morning about these bridge loans that's
the federal government obviously a very
expensive idea but something that might
be needed to prop up the economy to give
small businesses across the country
alone over the duration of this crisis
no interest to be paid back over
five years or whatever you decide one
caveat I'm all for it with one caveat
that loan can be forgiven if and only if
they keep all their employees all there
to give them yes you don't want to give
them a loan and then they fire half the
employees and they're out of work but
again it's something that we're working
on mark warner and are on our side of
the aisle is doing a good job coming up
with a plan we've been talking to not
only minuchin on this but powell but
it's a very good idea provided again our
motto and this is workers first the
bailout in 2008 help people at the top
didn't help average folks that is not
going to happen on our watch we're gonna
fight as hard as we can and we hope our
Republican friends will join us in
putting workers first and I'd say that
also in terms of the airline's industry
in the hospitality industry we don't
want to give them money we know that we
have to keep though think we have to
keep them going and we know that they
have lots of workers who are innocent
and we want to keep them keep them
working but we don't want to give them
money unless they keep all their
employees they don't cut salaries of
their employees and these bailouts which
I know Joe these buybacks
they infuriate me we should not be
allowing them to do buybacks raise
corporate salaries and they did 39
billion dollars the airline's industry
alone did 39 billion dollars of buybacks
over the last eight months that money
could have been there to help the
workers to help the airlines out of this
we have to find a way to claw back that
money buybacks are a menace and 70
percent of this tax break that we did
two years ago didn't go to workers
didn't go to productivity went to
buybacks it's a disgrace you know
Republicans will say well it's their
money they get the tax cuts they can do
what they want to do with it but these
are the same Republicans who sold the
tax cut by saying they would use it to
get workers they would use it to expand
operations say we do use it for cash
reserves they didn't do that I want to
ask you something about something that
was on NPR's Morning Edition this
morning Richard Burke a good friend of
mine from way back the Intel chief of
the United State
Senate there was a recording of Richard
burr that Tim Mack and NPR get his hands
on talking to a North Carolina business
group three weeks ago and warning them
not to travel to Europe three weeks ago
that was by the way 15 days before the
State Department issued the same warning
and compared the coronavirus three weeks
ago
excuse me for being upset three weeks
ago to the 1918 Spanish flu and warned
them of it everything that has unfolded
over the past three weeks how could it
be that a Republican senator can warn
his constituents on Capitol Hill about
this three weeks ago and this
administration is still flat-footed
today well that's the big question
that's the big problem but our number
one job Joe is to try and list the with
people in the White House who seem at
least to understand some of the
magnitude here minuchin he has a wall
street point of view I don't and we're
gonna have to make sure that is curbed
his view in what we proposed but we got
to move forward we got to come together
and move forward the White House as you
said you said it very well this will be
a very valid theme in November I think
the American people know when the
president says he's always thought it's
a crisis they heard his words a week ago
where he was downplaying it but now we
have to be all hands on deck this is one
of the most serious crisis we faced a
30-year brian's history I know you bring
my question is this now how do we ensure
because we're again I don't want to talk
about what happened in the past I want
to talk about what's happening now yes
how do we ensure that every New Yorker
every person from Ohio every person from
Florida Arizona Wisconsin California
everybody that needs a test gets a test
how do we get there from here well there
are a couple of things that can be done
last week I was on the phone our
governor our mayor were all on the phone
till with the vice president saying let
New York approve its own testing we have
labs in New York we have hospitals in
New York who are eager to go finally
they did that and I think New York
you'll see me
more tests in the near future every
state should be allowed to go forward
one of the big problems is that the FDA
in the CDC takes so long to approve the
test and they're not looking at it at
the level of crisis that we have now
that many more people will die if we
don't approve these tests quickly and as
you said they're essential when when
they imposed a quarantine on the mayor
and New Rochelle he was begging the
White House for tests the governor was
begging them for tests because he said
if I could test everyone in New Rochelle
that's one of the first places that
imposed a semi quarantine I could test
them if you had the virus
you'd stay in your house if you didn't
you could go to the stores go to the
shops and we wouldn't have this crisis
your anger is totally justified I share
it I speak to New Yorkers all the time
and you know this crisis it's
devastating in a different way what a
New Yorkers like to do what do Americans
like to do in a time of crisis the same
thing we did after 9/11 come together
all as one people no matter what our
background everything and now we're
isolated I mean I love being out with my
constituents all the time and they tell
me things I'm on the phone all day but
it's not the same but we can't commute
keep be near each other and that makes
it even more the uncertainty of what's
going on the lack of leadership which
you so aptly pointed out and the
inability of us to be together makes
this crisis even more vexing but that
demands real strong action so what we're
going to propose is the Marshall Plan
for the hospitals we're going to propose
this large increase in unemployment
benefits it's almost employment benefits
because the people will be employed
again and they're just furlough we're
going to propose large increases in pay
in paid sick leave and in paid family
leave the bill we passed yesterday and
it was a good sign 90 votes both sides
of the aisle but it didn't go far enough
and didn't cover enough people it will
and finally in the bailouts we're gonna
propose workers first dealing with the
buybacks dealing with corporate salaries
making sure the workers are kept and
paid full and if we can do these four
things and many others
elizabeth warren and i want to see
student loans forgiven during the period
of the crisis we're gonna call for that
we got a call for some help with senior
citizens we need the National Guard to
be involved because who's going to
deliver meals to the senior citizens or
the kids at school who used to get their
best meal during the day so there's so
so much to do and we're we're gonna try
in this kovat three legislation to cover
a whole lot of it we hope we get the
cooperation Nancy and I do of the
administration and of our Senate
Republican friends Senate Minority
Leader Chuck Schumer thank you and Joe
you thanks for checking out MSNBC on
YouTube and make sure you subscribe to
stay up-to-date on the day's biggest
stories and you can click on any of the
videos around us to watch more four
Morning Joe and MSNBC thanks so much for
watching